# Brute Force

## Generating Password List with Crunch

`crunch 3 3 0123456789ABCDEF -o 3digits.txt`

The command above specifies the following:

- 3 the first number is the minimum length of the generated password
- 3 the second number is the maximum length of the generated password
- 0123456789ABCDEF is the character set to use to generate the passwords
- \-o 3digits.txt saves the output to the 3digits.txt file

## Generating Custom Password List with CeWL

CeWL (pronounced "cool") is a custom word list generator tool that spiders websites to create word lists based on the site's content. Spidering, in the context of web security and penetration testing, refers to the process of automatically navigating and cataloguing a website's content, often to retrieve the site structure, content, and other relevant details. This capability makes CeWL especially valuable to penetration testers aiming to brute-force login pages or uncover hidden directories using organisation-specific terminology.

Beyond simple wordlist generation, CeWL can also compile a list of email addresses or usernames identified in team members' page links. Such data can then serve as potential usernames in brute-force operations.

To create and save a basic wordlist to a file, you can use the command below:

```terminal
cewl http://MACHINE_IP -w output.txt
```

## Attacking with Hydra

`hydra -l '' -P 3digits.txt -f -v MACHINE_IP http-post-form "/login.php:pin=^PASS^:Access denied" -s 8000`

The command above will try one password after another in the 3digits.txt file. It specifies the following:

- \-l '' indicates that the login name is blank as the security lock only requires a password
- \-P 3digits.txt specifies the password file to use
- \-f stops Hydra after finding a working password
- \-v provides verbose output and is helpful for catching errors
- MACHINE_IP is the IP address of the target
- http-post-form specifies the HTTP method to use
- "/login.php:pin=^PASS^:Access denied" has three parts separated by :

1.  /login.php is the page where the PIN code is submitted
2.  pin=^PASS^ will replace ^PASS^ with values from the password list
3.  Access denied indicates that invalid passwords will lead to a page that contains the text “Access denied”

- \-s 8000 indicates the port number on the target

## Attacking with wfuzz

`wfuzz -c -z file,usernames.txt -z file,passwords.txt --hs "Please enter the correct credentials" -u http://MACHINE_IP/login.php -d "username=FUZZ&password=FUZ2Z"`

In the command above:

- \-z file,usernames.txt loads the usernames list.
- \-z file,passwords.txt uses the password list generated by CeWL.
- \--hs "Please enter the correct credentials" hides responses containing the string "Please enter the correct credentials", which is the message displayed for wrong login attempts.
- \-u specifies the target URL.
- \-d "username=FUZZ&password=FUZ2Z" provides the POST data format where FUZZ will be replaced by usernames and FUZ2Z by passwords.